Updates Prefect 1 Migration Guide (#15544)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guides/migration-guide.md

  boost: 2
---

> # Migrating from Prefect 1 to Prefect 3

Author: @discdiver just in the title or throughout?

> # Migrating from Prefect 1 to Prefect 3

Reviewer: Throughout would match the v3 guide.

Learn how to migrate your workflows from Prefect 1 to Prefect 3. Check out the [quickstart](https://docs.prefect.io/3.0/get-started/quickstart) for a high level overview.

!!! Note "What about Prefect 2?"

>     Prefect 2 refers to the 2.x lineage of the open source prefect package, and Prefect 3 refers exclusively to the 3.x lineage of the prefect package. Neither version is strictly tied to any aspect of Prefect’s commercial product, [Prefect Cloud](https://docs.prefect.io/3.0/manage/cloud/index).

Reviewer 2: perhaps we could add some note about how the jump from 2 to 3 is not nearly as big as 1 to 2

relatedly, I like what (I think) this is going for, which is "cloud works for both 2.x and 3.x, dont worry" but the way this sentence is worded is sort of confusing to me

Reviewer 3: How about just

> Prefect Cloud is compatible with all 2.x and 3.x package versions.

Author: How about:
> Prefect Cloud is compatible with all 2.x and 3.x package versions. We recommend adopting Prefect 3.0 as it is significantly more performant than Prefect 2.x and includes new features.

By the way, I ripped the original wording directly from: https://docs.prefect.io/3.0/resources/whats-new-prefect-3

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

Prefect 1 agents are called workers in Prefect 3, but are still typed based on infrastructure.

## New features introduced in Prefect 3

The following new components and capabilities are enabled by Prefect 3:

- More Pythonic thanks to the elimination of flow pre-registration.
- More flexibility for flow deployments, including easier promotion of a flow through development, staging, and production environments.
- Native `async` support.
- Out-of-the-box `pydantic` validation.
- [Blocks](https://docs.prefect.io/3.0/develop/blocks) allow you to securely store UI-editable, type-checked configuration to external systems. All those components are configurable in one place and provided as part of the open-source Prefect 3 product. In contrast, the concept of [Secrets](https://docs-v1.prefect.io/orchestration/concepts/secrets.html) in Prefect 1 are more narrowly scoped and only available in Prefect Cloud.
- [Automations](https://docs.prefect.io/3.0/automate/events/automations-triggers) provide an expressive API to define triggers (based on events) and actions. Automations power notifications and much more.

> - Every flow state change, task state change, and more produces a corresponding event which can be the basis of an automation trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Every action within Prefect, including flow state changes and task state changes, produces a corresponding event that can trigger an automatic action. Potential actions include running flows, sending notifications, and pausing or restarting schedules.
```

> - First-class support for `subflows` which enables a natural and intuitive way of organizing your flows into modular sub-components. In contrast, Prefect 1 only allowed the [flow-of-flows orchestrator pattern](https://docs-v1.prefect.io/core/idioms/flow-to-flow.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First-class support for nested flows enables a natural and intuitive way of organizing your flows into modular sub-components. In contrast, Prefect 1 only allowed the [flow-of-flows orchestrator pattern](https://docs-v1.prefect.io/core/idioms/flow-to-flow.html).
```

### Orchestration behind the API

Apart from new features, Prefect 3 simplifies many usage patterns and provides a much more seamless onboarding experience.

Every time you run a flow, whether it is tracked by the API server or ad-hoc through a Python script, it is on the same UI page for easier debugging and observability. 

### Code as workflows

> With Prefect 3, your functions *are* your flows and tasks. Prefect 3 automatically detects your flows and tasks without the need to define a rigid DAG structure. While use of tasks is encouraged to provide you the maximum visibility into your workflows, they are no longer required. You can add a single `@flow` decorator to your main function to transform any Python script into a Prefect workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Prefect 3, your decorated functions *are* your flows and tasks. Prefect 3 automatically detects your flows and tasks without the need to define a rigid DAG structure. While use of tasks is encouraged to provide you the maximum visibility into your workflows, they are no longer required. You can add a single `@flow` decorator to your main function to transform any Python script into a Prefect workflow.
```
